### Hi there 👋

<!--
**zqd9853572002/zqd9853572002** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->
# FULLERTON: RISK ANALYTICS AND BUSINESS STRATEGY

# Background

In early April 2013, Shantanu Mitra, Chief Executive Officer of Fullerton India Credit Company Limited (FICCL, or Fullerton), a non-banking Financial Company (NBFC) in India and a wholly owned subsidiary of Singapore-based investment company Temasek, had just concluded a meeting with his Chief Risk Officer, Anindo Mukherjee, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operations Officer, Anand Natarajan and Chief Analytics Officer, Bikramjit Ganguly. Fullerton provided loans to consumers and small enterprises in urban and rural India. Typical loan size was small by developed country standards ( 750 for consumer loans and  1,500 for commercial loans) and many of its borrowers did not have their credit history reported by the local credit bureaus. Owing to the nature of Fullerton‘s customers, there was significant risk in its lending business. However, Temasek had reason to be optimistic about the future of Fullerton, given the credit issuance standards put in place in recent years, and the turnaround of the company since the financial crisis in 2009.

Weak credit issuance standards had exposed the company to significant risk especially during the financial downturn and had compelled its parent Temasek to inject new capital into the company to keep it afloat. Credit policy and corporate governance changes, along with significant cost reduction initiatives during the last few years, brought about a turnaround for the company. However, the highly competitive nature of the Indian consumer and commercial loan markets required Fullerton to identify under-served segments with acceptable risk-return characteristics, and also price its products appropriately to obtain the risk-adjusted returns expected by Temasek. Mitra believed that using data and analytics would be critical for his strategy in the future. His discussions with Mukherjee, Natarajan and Ganguly had focused on how data analytics could form the basis of a strong credit issuance and loan pricing policy. Fullerton had recently hired a team of highly trained data scientists to work withGanguly.

Although the idea was intriguing, Mitra knew that there were many obstacles to the implementation of a data analytics driven credit issuance and pricing policy. The loan data available to Fullerton and the methods to analyze the data were not new, and while obtaining actionable insights from the data was not trivial, it was clear to the team that translating these insights into actions on the ground would require very difficult organizational, governance and incentive changes. Could Fullerton use data and analytics to identify profitable segments and set interest rates that accurately accounted for the probability of default, especially in high risk segments? Could data and analytics be used to create a loan portfolio that offered acceptable returns during normal times as well as during recessions? Would the company be able to make changes to its operations and decision making to take advantage of the insights from data and analytics? Would important stakeholders such as its investors, board of directors, and regulators approve the actions taken based on data andanalytics?

# THE INDIAN BANKING SECTOR

The Indian banking system has been regulated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Public sector banks (controlled by the Government of India) have historically dominated the retail lending sector. However, in recent years, there has been a substantial increase in the presence of private sector banks and foreign banks in the Indian retail and commercial lending sectors. Companies such as Fullerton were classified as non-banking financial companies (NBFCs).1 These companies, which are registered under the Indian Companies Act of 1954, are regulated by the Reserve Bank of India. Although NBFCs do not hold a banking license, they are typically involved in providing loans and advances, asset financing, insurance, and the trading of financial instruments, thereby serving as alternatives to the regular public and private sector banks. They increase competition and the availability of loans, spread risks during times of financial distress, and complement the banking system to meet consumer and commercial creditneeds.

Although NBFCs perform functions similar to that of banks,2 a key difference is that they cannot accept demand deposits and are mostly dependent on funding from investors and financial institutions.3 Unlike banks, NBFCs are less regulated and can be 100% foreign owned. Another important difference is that NBFCs have to maintain a minimum capital adequacy ratio (CAR)4 of 15%, as compared to regular banks, which require an 8% capital adequacyratio.

# COMPANY BACKGROUND AND HISTORY

Fullerton (FICCL) was a private limited company registered in India as a non-banking financial company (NBFC) that did not accept deposits from consumers and provided consumer and commercial loans from shareholder funds and borrowings from financial institutions.

After the launch of commercial operations in January 2007, Fullerton experienced an explosive growth in loans, branches, and customers. In 2009, the company had over 800 branches in 450+ locations, over 650,000 customers, approximately  640 million in loans, and over 16,000 employees. The average loan size was  750 for consumer loans and  1587 for commercial loans, and the average monthly payment was  30 for consumer loans and  62 for commercial loans. Fullerton underwrote  43 million of new loans every month and opened 28,000 new loan accounts every month in 2009. Over 95% of its customers did not have any credit history reported by the local credit bureaus in 2009. Fullerton‘s focus in 2009 was on lower income segments earning INR5 5,000–8,000 per month (i.e., 104–167 per month, approximately) that did not have access to credit from banks and would have otherwise obtained credit from money lenders. In 2009,Fullerton‘ sproduct portfolio consisted of unsecured person all loans, mortgage loans, loans to small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), and two-wheeler and commercial vehicle loans.

In 2009, the impact of the financial crisis exposed the flaws in Fullerton loan underwriting standards. After being on the company's books for 10 months, loan delinquency rates (percentage of loans that are 30 days past due) were expected to stabilize between 10% and 15%. The high interest rate charged on loans reflected the high rate of expected default and provided a substantial profit margin for Fullerton. However, during the 2009 financial crisis, loan default rate for loans that had been 20 months-on-book rose to approximately 35% and failed tostabilize.

Meanwhile, Fullerton had also started a rural lending program (microfinance) in 2008 with period end receivables (net loans outstanding) reaching  34 million in 2009. Its rural business consisted of loans to self-help groups, as well as secured two-wheeler and commercial vehicle loans. Although the default rate (percentage of loans 30 days past due) for the rural portfolio was low and largely unaffected by the financial crisis (2% in 2009), an act implemented by the government of Andhra Pradesh (one of the five Indian states where Fullerton provided rural loans) in 2010 that restricted collection activities by financial institutions resulted in a significantly increased default rate of 15% in 2010, as most borrowers realized that Fullerton did not have the ability to effectively collect on debt.

Owing to large credit write-offs in its urban and rural businesses, Fullerton made losses of INR 2450 million (49 million) in 2008 and INR 7170 million (143 million) in 2010, while breaking even in 2009 ( Exhibit 1 ). These losses required periodic capital infusion from Temasek to keep the company afloat ( 120 million in 2008 and  50 million in 2009, in addition to the original capital investments of  100 million in 2005 and  100 million in 2007). By 2009, Temasek had invested a total of  370 million in Fullerton. In 2010, that investment was worth approximately 180 million owing to bad loans and losses.

In addition to shareholder capital, Fullerton also relied on loans from financial institutions to fund its lending business. Its capital adequacy ratio (CAR) was 75% in March 2007 since it relied mainly on shareholder capital to fund its operations at that time. With more loans from financial institutions over time and write-offs in shareholder funds during the financial crisis, CAR decreased to 18% in December 2011 ( Exhibit 2 ), still above its mandatory 15% level. Although greater leverage magnifies returns to shareholders, it also increases solvency and liquidity risk during market downturns. Credit losses affected the ability of Fullerton to borrow funds from financial institutions owing to the increased perceived risk in its business model. With its business model in jeopardy, few financial institutions were willing to lend any new funds to Fullerton. It was also unlikely that Temasek would invest new capital in the business. In summary, Fullerton was struggling for survival after the financial downturn.

# STRATEGIC SHIFT

In 2010, Mitra took over as CEO of Fullerton. He had over 30 years of consumer banking experience with several international banks in India and Asia Pacific. Prior to Fullerton, he had held senior positions in credit and risk management at Citigroup and Standard Chartered Bank. His background in risk management provided the expertise that Fullerton needed to make a shift in its lending operations.

Owing to the large losses during the financial downturn, Fullerton made several significant changes during 2010-2012. The company reduced the number of branches from 850 to 340, reduced headcount from 16,000 to 5,700, and reduced its presence from 450 towns in India to 250. In addition to cost-cutting initiatives, Fullerton began targeting the under-served niche segments in its rural and urban businesses between the segments served by the large private banks and the micro finance institutions. In particular, it focused its urban businesses on the segment just below those covered by private and foreign banks ( Exhibit 3 ). Key competitors to Fullerton in this niche segment were public sector banks.

As a result of this change, Fullerton began focusing on relatively higher income earners (INR 400K– 1000K or 6,000–15,000 per annum) and the average loan size increased from INR 50,000 (1,042) in 2009 to INR 180,000 (3,529) in 2012. In the urban areas, it identified &quot;aspirers&quot; who were educated, owned mid-sized businesses or held stable jobs, and had lifestyle aspirations. Its products were tailored to customer needs across life stages – both personal and business.

The urban segment was catered through a branch network with a focus on smaller cities. The urban business was further classified as retail and commercial (small and medium enterprises). The products offered by its urban retail business were unsecured consumer loans (personal loans) and secured loans (loans against property). Urban commercial loans included commercial vehicle finance, unsecured business loans (for working capital requirements), and loans against property.

Fullerton‘s rural business began to focus on households with annual income between INR 180K and INR 400K (2,700–6,000 per annum), which is relatively high for rural areas in India. Fullerton‘s rural products included personal and group loans, mortgages, and vehicle loans.

These changes led to significantly improved financial performance for the company. Following heavy losses in 2010, after tax, quarterly profit increased to INR 6,578 million in 2011-2012, and to INR 7,587 million in 2012-2013. Exhibits 4 and 5 present the financials of Fullerton. Although the turnaround in Fullerton was dramatic, the projected profits (as of mid-year) of approximately  21 million in 2012-2013 suggested a ballpark valuation of 210 million (using a P/E of 10 that is typical for banks).6 With an investment of 370 million, Temasek expected a significantly higher valuation to ensure a reasonable return on its investment.

# DATA ANALYTICS CENTERED DECISION MAKING

Fullerton‘s niche focus on under-served market segments created opportunities for high profit margins during normal business cycles, but also increased risk during economic downturns. Alert to this reality, Mitra started an initiative to address unanticipated shifts in the economic environment. He believed that the time was right to introduce a more scientific approach to lending in under-served market segments, similar to the approach used by large foreign banks in more traditional segments. He believed that data analytics could enable better targeting of customers, superior pricing of products, and more precise trade- offs between risk and reward, so that Fullerton could earn good profits while taking reasonable risks. The public sector banks that served similar market segments did not use data analytics in any significant way. Mitra strongly believed that data analytics could increase business predictability for Fullerton, reduce loan losses by allowing it to focus on the right segments of the market, and create a portfolio that quantified and balanced risk and reward. Most importantly, Mitra believed that analytics would prove to be a strategic asset, differentiating Fullerton from its competitors. In 2012, Mitra set up the risk analytics team headed by Bikramjit Ganguly, who would report directly to the Chief Risk Officer, Anindo Mukherjee (replaced by Rajesh Krishnamoorthy in late 2013 when Mukherjee moved to a different assignment). As depicted in Exhibit 6 , Mitra, Mukherjee as well as Krishnamoorthy wanted risk analytics to be an integral part of: (i) market entry assessments, (ii) initial customer acquisition decisions, (iii) credit risk management, (iv) distribution and channel management, and (v) employee and portfolio performance analysis.

# RISK ANALYTICS FRAMEWORK

A key motivation for adopting a data analytics approach was to ensure congruence between the risk appetite of the firm and the risk exposure created by its credit granting decisions, and to make optimal use of capital while meeting regulatory requirements. To properly assess risk exposure, financial firms have to assess the inherent risk-return tradeoffs in normal economic times, and also measure the extent of losses it may incur in a recession scenario. Although the former can be accounted for in the pricing of loans, collateral requirements, and standard provisioning for bad loans, Fullerton needed to set aside capital to account for risk during stress periods, in accordance with the Bank of International Settlements‘ Baselnorms.

Exhibit 7 describes the risk appetite framework at Fullerton. The Board of Directors approves the risk appetite statement (RAS) that defines the metrics to assess performance at Fullerton (for e.g., risk adjusted return, loss volatility, operational risk, solvency, liquidity, and reputation). The CEO is entrusted with designing the firm‘s strategy and business plan to meet the overall goals established by the Board of Directors.

Two important outcomes of business planning are the capital implications and the risk-return implications. The capital implications are measured by economic capital (EC) and risk adjusted return on economic capital (RARoEC). The risk-return implications are measured by risk adjusted returns (RAR) duringnormaleconomictimes,andrecessionlossmultiplier(RLM),whichcapturesthevulnerabilityof the bank during stress periods. The latter is critical for financial firms because credit risk causes significant adverse impact on a financial firm‘s profits during stress periods. The capital and risk implications are reconciled with the RAS, and the strategy and business plans are revisedaccordingly.

Exhibit 8 provides details of the risk assessment parameters at Fullerton, based on industry practices prescribed by Basel II norms. Three key loss parameters capture the risk faced by Fullerton during normal economic times. The probability of default (PD) measures the likelihood that an account becomes 90 days past due during the next 12 months. The exposure at the time of default (EAD) is the outstanding balance on the account at the time of expected default. The loss given default (LGD) is the percentage of the outstanding balance that is expected to be lost (after incorporating the amount recovered and collection costs) if there is default. Thus, the expected loss (EL) for an account is simply PD × LGD × EAD, and the expected loss for the portfolio is aggregated from individual accounts.

Fullerton used various regression models to estimate PD, LGD, and EAD using historical loan and default data that the company had stored internally or that it could obtain from the credit bureaus. For example, a logistic regression was used to estimate the probability of default with predictor variables (such as annual income, loan amount, and customer demographic variables) that the analytics team believed should impact the likelihood of default and that were available in the historical data. Coefficient estimates for these variables were obtained through regression analysis on historical data, and the coefficient estimates were then used to forecast the PD, LGD, EAD, and EL for existingaccounts.

These account-level values were aggregated to obtain the expected loss (EL) for the Fullerton portfolio. The expected operating profit for the Fullerton portfolio was estimated by subtracting total expenses (operating expenses plus cost of capital) from the pro-forma loan revenue (interest and fee income), while the risk adjusted return (RAR %) of the portfolio is calculated by subtracting the expected loss (EL) from the operating profits (expressed as a percentage of loan amount). Thus, risk adjusted return (RAR %) is a metric of overall profitability of a business or segment after accounting for expected losses during normal periods.

Although the above analysis is focused on normal economic times, Basel II norms also specify how stress periods should be taken into account. At Fullerton, recession risk was captured in a measure termed as the recession loss multiplier (RLM), which expresses stress period losses (or recession losses) as a multiple of normal operating profits.7 RLM provides insights on the number of years of normal operating profit that is wiped out by losses in a (rare) recession year. The recession loss is calculated by estimating the recession probability of default (RPD) and the recession loss given default (RLGD) for each account in a recession year, and then aggregating to the portfolio level. For the urban portfolio, the analytics team at Fullerton used historical data from 2009 (recession year) and Basel prescribed methodologies to estimate RPD and RLGD. For the rural portfolio, the team modeled customer behavior using historical data from theAndhraPradeshcrisisin2010(describedearlier)toestimateRPDandRLGD.Toobtainabalance between profits in normal economic times and risk during stress periods, Fullerton wanted to maximize profits (RAR) while keeping its vulnerability to stress periods (RLM) as low as possible.

# CENTRALIZED CREDIT UNDERWRITING

One of the important decisions made by the company was to reorganize the credit underwriting process from a decentralized approach (branch-based) to a centralized model that relied on validated internal and credit bureau data. Credit approval and credit administration work were now managed by an independent team to ensure demarcation of responsibilities for loan origination and credit approval functions. Approval authority was governed through a carefully designed and periodically reviewed credit approval authority matrix which required higher loan amounts and higher risk customers to be approved by more senior approvers in thecompany.

The credit function was made an independent hierarchy reporting to the CEO (through the CRO) instead of being part of the branch or regional hierarchy, so that credit decisions were made without considering revenue targets. This separation of risk staff (who approved and administered credit) from the sales staff (who originated credit) not only ensured independence of the risk management decisions, but also ensured that the sales staffs‘ incentives were more aligned with the bank‘s overall objectives. In addition, by relying on data and analytics, Fullerton would be shielded from judgement biases (of sales staff) that affected the credit appraisal process.

Furthermore, by 2012, 75-80% of its customers had credit history reported by the local credit bureaus, providing more data to the analytics team to refine its models. The availability of credit bureau data facilitated a much more meaningful implementation of the risk analytics framework.

# APPLICATION SCORECARD AND BEHAVIOR SCORECARD

The risk analytics team developed an automated application scorecard to evaluate new customers (referred to as &quot;risk grading&quot; in the company). Using historical data, the team created a logistic regression model based on customer information available from the application form and the credit bureaus.8 Depending on the applicant‘s score (as determined by their models), the application was either directly approved (green category) or rejected by the automated system (red category), with only a small sample left for further manual analysis (amber category). The time taken to categorize applicants was only as long as it took to feed in the personal data provided by theapplicant.

The automated tool significantly reduced the average time required to reject or approve a loan application. Furthermore, field agents used their experience with the software application system to focus on the appropriate customer segments that were more likely to be approved. Ironically, they felt more empowered because the approval system was more predictable than the previous system, which was subject to judgement biases of their managers. As a result, the loan approval rate also increased after the introduction of the automated process.

For existing customers, the analytics team developed a behavioral scorecard to assess their risk of default. The variables used in the logistic regression model included customer behavioral attributes on existing loans with Fullerton as well as the customer‘s performance on other loans with other banks (accessed through the credit bureaus). This dynamic exercise (referred to as &quot;scrubbing&quot;) was helpful in estimating an existing customer‘s propensity to default such that preemptive actions could be triggered to mitigate losses.

# RISK-BASED PRICING

Mitra believed that the power of predictive analytics placed Fullerton in a superior position in identifying good credit while avoiding bad credit. He also believed that analytics could be used in risk-based pricing, that is, the interest rate on loans could be set according to analytics-based risk measures rather than potentially biased subjective criteria. In addition, risk analytics would also allow Fullerton to price loans differentially across market segments. For instance, loans sourced from lower income groups and from smaller towns (Tier 4 cities in India) offered greater potential for margin because these loans were precisely the ones that its competitors avoided for fear of adverse selection. Fullerton could use predictive analytics to identify customers in such high margin segments with acceptable risk-return characteristics. Fullerton began using a risk-based pricing approach that factored both the risk and the degree of competition it faced in the market segment.

# RISK MANAGEMENT IN OTHER AREAS

Fullerton also strengthened the overall risk management infrastructure in the company.9 Collections were partially centralized with a mix of tele-collectors and field collectors, partially outsourced to third party collection agencies, and segmented by product type for greater efficiency and effectiveness. Fraud detection was also strengthened through neural network algorithms and comprehensive self-assessment checklists for branches.

In addition to the above measures, Fullerton adopted conservative bad loan provisioning norms10 and initiated write-off procedures that recognized losses early to ensure alignment of risk exposure with risk appetite. Fullerton‘s provisioning policy for both secured and unsecured loans is more stringent than that specified by the Reserve Bank of India for non-banking financial institutions. For example, for unsecured products, Reserve Bank norms specify writing off a loan at 720 days past due, whereas Fullerton writes off a loan at 120 days past due. For secured products, Reserve Bank norms specify 50% write-offs at 1,800 days past due, whereas Fullerton implements a 100% write-off policy at 720 days pastdue.

# BUILDING AN ANALYTICS-DRIVEN ORGANIZATION

By early 2013, Fullerton had an experienced team and robust data analytic frameworks in place. According to Mitra:

The expertise of the Fullerton data analytics team and their ability to model complex tradeoffs in risk and return were unparalleled in the Indian banking sector. Very few other banks had the ability to leverage data like Fullerton.

His focus was on how Fullerton could leverage these capabilities to build a data-driven organization where strategy and decisions were guided by data and analytics. He identified the following areas of focus for the analyticsteam.

# BALANCING THE LOAN PORTFOLIO

Early in his tenure as CEO, Mitra had recognized that the Fullerton loan portfolio was skewed unfavorably towards unsecured loans that inflated profits during normal periods but also led to larger write-offs during stress periods. He initiated a process to change the mix towards secured loans and the loan mix (portfolio shape) was gradually changed from an 80% unsecured or 20% secured composition in 2009 to a 69% unsecured or 31% secured composition in 2012. Although, the strategy made intuitive sense, he was unable to precisely articulate the tradeoffs involved in such decisions to his board and investors.

With the analytics team in place, one of the first tasks Mitra assigned to the team was to analyze and quantify the effect of this strategic change. The team applied the risk models it had developed to estimate the loss distribution for various values of the portfolio shape (mix of secured vs. unsecured loans in the Fullerton loan portfolio). This information is captured in Exhibit 9 in terms of the credit risk parameters: expected loss (EL), recession loss multiplier (RLM), loss absorption ability (LAA), risk adjusted return (RAR), and economic capital (EC)11 estimated for four scenarios under consideration. Each scenario represents a potential evolution of the portfolio shape (mix of secured vs. unsecured loans) over time. This data was used to determine a portfolio shape that would maximize profits while being consistent with the board‘s risk appetite. The board wanted an RLM of around 1.0 and was uncomfortable with stress period credit risk above thislevel.

# PRODUCT AND GEOGRAPHICAL MIX IN THE UNSECURED RETAIL SEGMENT

The analytics team also recognized that the advantage of predictive analytics would be much more significant in analyzing urban unsecured retail loans as opposed to unsecured rural loans, because more reliable internal and credit bureau data were available for urban customers. Data analytics would also provide fewer insights on commercial loans because most of these loans were secured, and even when unsecured, these loans were based on relationships. Further, the urban unsecured retail loan portfolio with a large number of transactions offered the scale needed for performing risk analytics. In addition, shunned by the traditional banking firms, this high-risk segment required a more scientific approach to pricing credit risk. Also, the real value of analytics would come to the fore when evaluating unsecured loans where information asymmetry is significant and there is no recourse to collateral. With risk analytics in place, information asymmetry could be viewed as an opportunity for Fullerton to differentiate and maintain a sustainable competitive advantage.12

The unsecured urban lending portfolio mainly consists of two types of personal loans: personal loans to salaried customers and personal loans to self-employed customers. Exhibits 10 and 11 provide details of the loan characteristics and historical delinquency rates of these loans, respectively. Both exhibits classify the urban retail market segment into two product categories: personal loans to salaried customers (PL Sal) and personal loans to self-employed customers (PL Self), who operate small businesses. These loans were disbursed in Metro cities and Tier 1-4 (smaller cities and towns) areas, and were usually of low denomination with a maturity that could extend up to 4 years. Personal loans to salaried customers were on average half the size of personal loans to self-employed customers.

Exhibit 12 shows the details of personal loans for March 2013 and estimates for October 2013. Exhibit 12 also shows the risk analytics based estimates of the associated RAR and RLM. Mitra wanted the risk analytics team to analyze this data to identify profitable segments of the market after accounting for risk exposure.

# DESIGNING INCENTIVES AND MANAGING THE IMPLEMENTATION

The incentive schemes at Fullerton for field agents encouraged volume, that is, field agents who sourced unsecured loans were more concerned about closing deals than about the net margin that accrued to Fullerton. On the other hand, incentives for the regional heads encouraged margin and the average interest rate on personal loans mattered to them. This created a dichotomy in incentives: field agents preferred larger loan amounts, whereas the regional heads preferred loans with higher margins.

Thus, while risk analytics could provide insights to identify profitable segments and quantify the effect of business actions, incentive alignment is also a key concern. Changing behavior of agents who sourced loans would be critical for the success of the risk analytics driven strategy. Mitra believed that the analytics team had deep insights on the changes that were needed, and the precise tradeoffs involved. Further, he believed that data could also provide insights on the root causes of the problems and the design of incentive structures to address the root causes. He asked the analytics team to lead the implementation and design appropriate incentives for field agents to induce &quot;correct&quot;behavior.

# TASK FOR THE TEAM

Mitra had asked Ganguly and his team to come up with a business plan that defined the desired portfolio shape (secured vs. unsecured debt), the desired product mix (PL Salaried vs. PL Self), and the desired geographical mix (between Metro, Tier 1, 2, 3, and 4 cities) for the unsecured urban retail loan portfolio. Specifically, he wanted the team to interpret the data that they had created for him (see Exhibits 9-12 ), to develop actionable plans for Fullerton, and to justify the plans using the data. Ganguly and his core sub- team comprising Raja Pal and Avinash Barnwal had to develop a top-down decision-making process to first determine the desired portfolio shape (secured vs. unsecured debt). Then, within the unsecured retail urban portfolio, the team had to identify the profitable market segments in terms of product categories (PL Salaried vs. PL Self), as well as geographical locations (Metro, Tier 1–4 cities). In both these tasks, it was important to maximize profits while maintaining acceptable risk exposure during stress periods. Finally, the team had to re-design the incentive scheme for field agents to make it compatible with the recently established risk analytics framework at Fullerton. Above all, Fullerton‘s bet on risk analytics was at stake. In the highly competitive Indian lending business, could data analytics be used to determine the portfolio shape and also identify profitable product/geographical market segments to achieve a higher valuation and a higher risk-adjusted return? Mitra wanted the analytics team to carefully consider the risks of using analytics to drive businessstrategy.

# Exhibit
